In CCUS, the first step is to capture CO2 from mainly industrial processes. After purification, the CO2 is transported via ship or pipeline, for **permanent storage in the geological underground** (CCS, or Carbon Capture and Storage) or for **processing into products** (CCU, or Carbon Capture and Utilisation). Following the example of authoritative international organisations such as the International Energy Agency and the UN climate panel IPCC, Flanders sees CCUS as part of the solution to meet the ambitious climate goals. Flanders has the know-how to develop and apply CCUS technology. Moreover, Flanders hosts several world-class industrial companies and ports in a small area, which allows us to organise CO2 transport efficiently.

Several ambitious projects are already under development in Flanders. At the same time, important challenges remain for the development of CCUS technology. Firstly, we are looking abroad** for the **storage of CO2 because there is no realistic potential for final storage in Flanders. There is also a need to further develop capture technologies at a competitive cost and to build **appropriate infrastructure** for CO2 transport.

In 2016, a comprehensive study was conducted on the potential applications of CCU in Flanders, which can be consulted here. The study '[Research on possible support policy regarding new applications of CO2 as feedstock/feedstock](https://assets.vlaanderen.be/image/upload/v1659014528/Onderzoek_naar_mogelijk_ondersteuningsbeleid_m.b.t._nieuwe_toepassingsmogelijkheden_van_CO2_als_grondstof_of_feedstock_cabj4g.pdf)' can be consulted here.

*([source](https://www.vlaanderen.be/veka/energie-en-klimaatbeleid/energie-en-klimaatbeleid-voor-ondernemingen/carbon-capture-utilisation-and-storage-ccus))*
*(Auto-translated)*
